Ganesh Chaturthi is a religious festival observed by Hindus to celebrate the birth of deity Lord Ganesh (the son of Lord Shiva and Parvati). According to the mythological anecdotes, Lord Ganesh is worshipped as the god of wisdom, good fortune and prosperity. This Hindu festivity, also popularly known as Vinayaka Chavithi or Vinayaka Chaturthi in many places, commences in the month of Bhaadrapada that kicks off on the shukla chaturthi and last for 10-12 days. Celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi usually falls between 20 August and 15 September every year. Ganesh Chaturthi 2016 will be celebrated on Monday, September 5 across the nation. It is an important festival and observed with fervour in the states of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.Lord Ganesh is easily recognized for his elephant head irrespective of his other attributes. About his birth there are numerous myths and traditional stories. Ganesh Chaturthi is celebrated with great enthusiasm by the devotees across India by offering prayers and preparing sweet dishes. Markets are embellished and skilled artisans start crafting clay models of Lord Ganesh in various poses, a few months before the mega-event. People install Ganesh idols in well-decorated mandaps and mount fascinating Ganesh Chaturthi photos or pictures in their houses or localities to offer their prayers and celebrate the festival in the best way possible. People and devotees also install images and statues at their homes and offer prayers during this auspicious festival. At mandaps, the celebration kicks off with the chanting of mantras and prayers offered by priest clad in white or red dhoti. Loads of sweets, jaggery, modakas, flowers are offered to Lord Ganesh. Throughout the auspicious ceremony, priests chant hymns from the Vedas and Upanishads as an act to show reverence. Statues of Lord Ganesh are decorated with glittering lights, colourful flower garlands and anointed with kumkum on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. Chanting hymns from the Vedas and Ganapati Atharva Shirsha Upanishad is also considered as an inevitable traditional sacrament to honour and praise the Lord. At the end of the puja ceremony, 'prasad' is distributed to the devotees as it is believed to have deity's blessings. The festivity concludes after a continuous celebration of more than a week by submerging the statue in rivers. The joy of Ganesh Chaturthi is celebrated in many ways by ardent devotees. Apart from decoration and chanting prayers, procession and also a range of cultural activities are organized to observe the auspicious festival. Believers of Lord Ganesh leave no stone unturned to share the significance and excitement of the celebration.To mark the quintessence of the religious festival, people send Ganesh Chaturthi wishes to their friends and family members in form of fancy gifts and devotional text messages. Well-written inspirational Ganesh Chaturthi SMSes are also considered a powerful medium to share the enthusiasm and significance of the celebration as these short and precise messages allow senders to edit and insert images accordingly to give a personal touch. An array of lovely Ganesh Chaturthi SMSes are available online to celebrate the festival online allowing individuals to choose according to their preferences.